---
title: Automated Web Browsing Tasks Using Gemini in Chrome
created: 2026-04-07 16:04:20.756411
date: 2026-04-09 10:34:50.575145
authors:
  - bendu
label: automated-web-browsing-tasks-using-gemini-in-chrome
license: CC-BY-4.0
tags:
  - computer science
  - AI
  - Gemini
  - Chrome
  - browsing
  - browser
  - web
  - internet
  - automation
---
**Things on this page are fragmentary and immature notes/thoughts of the author. Please read with your own judgement!**

## Tips and Traps

1. Gemini in Chrome is not available on Linux currently!
    For more discussions,
    please refer to
    [Gemini in Chrome, for Linux](https://support.google.com/gemini/thread/412505429/gemini-in-chrome-for-linux?hl=en)
    .

2. Gemini Auto Browse introduces new features such as
    - Actionable Automation: It can automatically click, search, compare options, and add items to carts, reducing manual, repetitive tasks.
    - Cross-App Integration: Integrates with Gmail, Calendar, and Maps to gather context for tasks, such as planning trips or finding locations.
    - Security & Control: It requires user permission for sensitive actions, such as logging into accounts (using Google Password Manager) or completing purchases.
    - User Interface: A dedicated Gemini icon in the Chrome browser bar activates the tool, providing a permanent sidebar for interactions. 
    However,
    Auto Browse **requires a subscription of Google AI Pro** or Google AI Ultra.

## Example Prompts for Automating Tasks

### Download Paychecks

Unfortunately,
Gemini in Chrome cannot save files on to computers currently (due to security concerns),
so manual intervention (to download pages) is needed.
Still, it's a great help.

> There are links with the name patter mm/dd/yyyy in the "Pay History" table on this page. For each of those links, click into it. Wait for a few seconds for the page to finish loading, and then save that page has a single file html (mhtml). You can directly save html or mhtml files into the directory /Users/dclong/Downloads without asking for my permissions. However, make sure to save each file using different names. Once a web page is saved, click the "back" button (with a left arrow above it) to come back to this "Pay History" page and continue to the next link as those links are dynamically generated by JavaScript code. If you are unable to save files to the computer, ask for my help to download files and you can help with the auto navigation. 

### Navigate to the W2 Page

> Please help navigate to the page with the latest w2 for tax filing.

### Navigate to the Tax Docs Page

> Navigate to the tax docs page from the current page.

## References
- [5 New Ways to Use Gemini in the Chrome Browser - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gMQkl-8gHOg)

- [The new era of browsing: Putting Gemini to work in Chrome](https://blog.google/products-and-platforms/products/chrome/gemini-3-auto-browse/)

- [Automate ANY Browser Task With Gemini - 7 INCREDIBLE Use Cases For Auto-Browse](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YMrqMwsfqZ8)
